---
layout: post
title: My Goals As A Frontend Developer
---

Hello world! My name is Grayson Connor and I want to be a frontend web developer. Am I good at coding? Not yet, really. Would I call myself “naturally tech savvy”? Not exactly. Do I have a lot of experience doing computer stuff? Guess what… I don’t. I do however have a passion. Not just a passion for being creative no matter what the medium is, but I have a passion to better my life substantially and to be in a career that is gratifying and meaningful to me.
	Being a 23 year old, I’ve had a lot of “kid jobs” up until this point in my life. I was a lifeguard, a landscaper, worked in retail, the food industry, and even owned and operated my own small business based out of my local mall. I did well at all of these jobs, but I still felt like something was missing and that my days of making $9/hr should come to an end. So I did what any reasonable, 20 something would do. I went to college. I went to college to be a medical billing specialist on a certificate program at the local community college. I was drawn to that because I was told that the medical field provided job security and good pay. Which is true.
So after a year of hard work and stressful nights of homework, it was finally the last day of school. I felt very good about how I did on the final exam, and after this day I would be qualified to start applying for jobs as medical billing specialist, and make a lot of money, and buy a house, and get married, and do all of these awesome things that I wanted to do. Everything should have been peachy, right? Wrong.
	 I sat in my car after that last day of class, and just marinated in a feeling dread. My head was swimming with thoughts of “Is this what I want to do with my life?”, “Do I want to spend my days pushing paper work and making calls to people to tell them that their insurance won’t cover life saving medicines or procedures?”, “Do I want to work in this plastic environment that disallows room for self-expression of any kind?” The answer was no. Just to be clear, I have nothing but respect for people that want to go that route in life, because somebody has got to do it, but it wasn’t for me.  The reason I got into medical billing was to make a lot of money, but on that day I realized that no amount of money was worth it to me if I had to sacrifice being passionate about what I do. I knew I wanted to be in a place that allowed me to express myself and my creativity.
	I wallowed in self-pity and despair for a few weeks, trying to figure out what I was going to do. I didn’t have the time or the finances to go get a different degree or certificate. I needed to find work or the very least I needed a promise of something that I could do soon. Then I saw it. Like a light at the end of the tunnel, there it was. An Instagram advertisement for a web development bootcamp called Bloc.
	So, I checked it out, and like mana from heaven, a peace washed over me. “I could be a web developer.” I didn’t know much about web development at the time, and I didn’t even know what code looked like, but I knew that sounded like me. Something creative, challenging, expressive, and financially promising. So, that brings us to now. I’ve been doing the Bloc web development track for several months now and I haven’t regretted it once. It hasn’t been easy by any means but, I know that it’s going to put me in a place that I’m happy in. It’s been difficult trying to support myself and learn something that’s completely foreign to me like coding, but I have a hope and motivation that I didn’t find in the other things I’ve pursued.
	I’ve found a desire to be a skilled web developer, not just so I can find a good paying job, but because I WANT to be good at this. I want to make websites for people, bands, companies, restaurants, events, anything. Web development allows me the ability to make a creative contribution to awesome stuff that other people are trying to do. That’s something I’ve been searching for for a long time. Once I’ve completed Bloc, I want to find a frontend web development job in Austin, TX and then get the ball rolling. After I’ve established myself in a job, I want to broaden my web development knowledge so that I can handle every aspect of developing and maintaining a website. Hopefully one day I can call myself a fullstack developer, and I can do some freelancing. That is my ultimate goal with web development, to see awesome stuff that people are doing and be able to contribute my skill to it. To me, that’s everything. 
