---
layout: post
title: My Experience With Bloc
---

So you want to get into web development, huh? Do you want an easy learning program that hands you all of the tools you need, and holds your hand the whole way on this journey into learning how to make and maintain websites? Well, Bloc is NOT for you. Allow me to explain…
	Early into my experience at Bloc, I realized that Bloc is not going to inject web development knowledge into my brain with a big web development syringe, and they aren’t going to hand out answers to your coding problems like Easter candy, and they are not going to give you a pat on the back if you haven’t worked for it. What they are going to do is facilitate an environment where you can teach yourself how to solve problems on your own. I know you’re probably asking yourself, “Well if they just teach me to solve problems on my own, why don’t I just skip Bloc and learn on my own?” I’ll tell you why. Structure, mentorship, and community.
	Bloc’s roadmap for learning development gives you a structure that you couldn’t have on your own. They show you what you need to learn, the order in which you should learn, and why you are learning certain concepts. The checkpoints in the roadmap are a demonstration of a concept, more so than a tutorial that takes you step-by-step through a concept. Why? To refine your ability to do research and find the answers (which are out there, whether it seems like they are or not) on your own, because it makes you a more well-rounded and dynamic developer. They can’t teach you every concept of web development, the topic is far too dense. When you are actually in the field as a web developer you are not going to know how to do every single thing that you might need. So having the skill of self-reliance in your learning is a tool that you’ll always need regardless of your experience level. Also, there are certain concepts in this trade that you can’t really teach, like programmatic thinking. You can teach the syntax required to write things like JavaScript, but the logic required to communicate to a computer in that way is something you can only learn by doing. It’s kind of like doing a skateboard trick. I can write out a step-by-step guide on how to do a kickflip on a skateboard, and you might gain an understanding of the general idea and the physics involved to do it, but no matter how in depth my “How to do a kickflip” tutorial is, you probably still won’t be able to do a kickflip. You have to form a level of muscle-memory and a comfortability with the movements required to do a kickflip before you “know” how to do it, and that only comes with practice by application. The same is true with a lot of the concepts taught in Bloc.
	To further facilitate this environment of self-learning Bloc assigns you a mentor that you meet with weekly. This has been the greatest asset in my Bloc experience so far. I have been fortunate enough to have the best mentor in the whole wide world! My mentor for the frontend portion of Bloc, Kevin, is very experienced and very knowledgable in this field, and is one of the main reasons  this journey has been so enjoyable. Each week I meet with Kevin over the computer, and he works through problems with me, gives me advice, and gives me an overall morale boost that I definitly need at times. Learning under a mentor allows you to watch a professional work and problem solve right before your eyes. Week by week I run into problems that I’m certain cannot be solved without taking my whole computer apart and doing some rewiring, but week by week Kevin will look at my problem and show me that it’s not that my issue is too complicated, I’m just not thinking about it the right way. Sometimes Kevin will simply delete one semicolon in my code and then everything will be fixed. He shows me that it’s easy to overcomplicate problem solving in coding, and that it’s just a matter of knowing what to look for. Having that professional perspective streamlines the process of thinking like a pro, and learning anything under the guidance of someone better at that thing than you will increase your confidence and makes you better by default. Be it pair programming or just talking about the industry, a personal mentor is an advantage that few other learning courses provide.
	When you are going through Bloc, it’s easy to get stuck or frustrated. One might feel alone in these feelings, but alas, you are not alone. Bloc provides a community of students and mentors that are virtually always available to help and encourage you. While the weekly mentor meetings are a great service, the Bloc Slack channel is a place you can always go to if you’re stuck or struggling and need a quick response. Hearing from other students and mentors widens your scope of learning, as different perspectives and opinions show you that there is probably no one right answer to any coding problem, only good and better answers. Utilizing Bloc’s community helps you, not only with troubleshooting code, but also with showing you what it will be like working with team when you are actually working in the industry.
	My experience with Bloc so far has kind of been like physical exercise. It hurts, it makes you tired, sometimes you’re like, “Oh my God why am I even doing this, I’d rather be eating a donut!”, but in the end it will make you feel good and it’ll make you stronger. If coding was easy then everyone would do it. It’s not easy. It’s hard… very hard, but if you stick with it, and put in the hours, you will make progress. Every small victory in this journey will give you the motivation to tackle the next problem you encounter. In the end, being willing to struggle through this process will always be a better alternative than sitting on the couch doing nothing. Doing nothing will get you nowhere, doing Bloc will make you a web developer. Your choice.
