---
layout: post
title: My Biggest Challenge In Development So Far
---

What has been my biggest struggle when it comes to learning development? Hmmm let me think about that… oh yeah, JAVASCRIPT, JAVASCRIPT, JAVASCRIPT. As someone that had zero web development experience at the beginning of my journey, JavaScript soon became my worst enemy. Now, at this point in my journey, it has become my best “frienemy.”
	I started learning web development the same way I think most people do. First came HTML (easy-peasy), then CSS (not as easy-peasy but I’m slowly but surely getting it), then boom… vanilla JavaScript. I understood the syntax, but it was the logic and programmatic thinking that JavaScript requires that tripped me up. It reminded me of algebra, and I hated algebra. JavaScript made me seriously start thinking that I wasn’t cut out to be a developer. When I asked people about JavaScript, they would talk about it like it was some ancient meditation practice that could only be unlocked from within your heart. I would get stuck trying solve a specific JavaScript problem, and when I’d seek help the only answer that I would get from my mentor or other developers was “There is no right answer.” or, “It depends.” I would go to my mentor and ask, “Is there something I’m missing, because I just don’t get it?” or, “Is there a better way to learn this, because I’m stuck?” He would remind me time and time again that the only way to learn programmatic thinking and JavaScript logic was to spend time with it. He was right.
	I would be asked to do things like design a function that console logged all of the vowels in any user inputted phrase, and I would have no understanding of how this would apply in a real world development situation. What I didn’t understand at the time was that there probably wasn’t any real world use for console logging all of the vowels in a phrase. It was just a programmatic thinking brain teaser. The goal wasn’t to console log all of the vowels in a phrase, the goal was for me to think out how I could communicate to the computer that that’s what I wanted it to do. That, in essence, is what vanilla JavaScript is when you first start learning it.
	 After struggling with vanilla JavaScript for months, I was introduced to things like JQuery and React, and I was like, “Sweet, now I’ll never need to do vanilla JavaScript again!” Wrong. I didn’t know it at the time, but learning vanilla JavaScript first before any frameworks or libraries is a huge asset as a developer, especially a new one. From the interview process to just being able to troubleshoot JS problems, knowledge of vanilla JavaScript makes you more effective than someone that only knows libraries or frameworks.
	At the beginning of this post I said that JavaScript was what I struggled with the most in development, but really it’s thinking like a computer that is difficult for me and many others. I haven’t mastered JavaScript by any means, but I have come far enough to see that it does indeed take a lot time before you start thinking like a computer, which is what JS really is. I’ve even come to like JavaScript. I don’t enjoy writing it yet, but I like it because I know what it can do, and I get excited thinking about what I’ll be able to do in the future with JavaScript.
